PART 1: MAHALAXMI, THE FOLLOWER

The black cat shivered on the pouring street
Drenched with hurt, and little to eat
O’er the hunger, his eyes so glum,
Who was he? What must he become?

Dwarfing the city, apparent to all,
Stood a tower of gold, holy and tall.
Hopeful, he strode,
To the light at the end of this road

Surely, a worshipper would grant him food?
These “devotees of all things good”
Surely, he’d be welcome, through that gate of teak?
Isn’t “mercy”, after all, what the humans here seek?

A painful force threw him flat.
“Accursed are we, the pick of this cat!”
Hissing, he got up, startled by the shout
A draped woman raged, seemingly devout.

Milo ran under the nearest stall,
Greeted by another, a feline old yet small.
Why was he kicked and not let be?
He never caused her any harm, did he?

“I tried to understand,” the old cat said,
“But days grew dark and nights long fled.
“They believe rambles quite astray,
That black cats bane simply crossing their way.”

Disregard was an old friend of his
But for simply existing, did he deserve all this?
Should’ve been born human, for his life’s sake.
For perhaps being born an animal was his own mistake.

He thought of the woman, feigning virtue still,
Was praying while preying her God’s will?
Ostracization? Twas’ a swirling new pit.
Her God would punish her, right? That vile hypocrite?
God sang a choir, was he not a part of it?

The black cat shivered on the pouring street
Drenched with hurt, and little to eat
O’er the hunger, his eyes so glum,
Who was he? What must he become?


PART 2: TRAIN SCENE 1, THE CROWD

Milo slept under the stall that night
Struggling again? He had not the might
Over the scrapers, the sun rose bright
Another day- a day hopefully alright.

He strolled through streets along the sea,
Eating bits and pieces whilst wary to be
Amidst the people in great succession,
He came across a strange procession

Braying, neighing, all so faint
Young as he was, he had far little restraint
Along the ground the train creaked and crept
And onto the beastly machine, Milo bravely leapt

Swaying and turning, he sniffed aboard
No crack no crevice left unexplored 
Yet only the small carriage had forged its end
And so, on to the next doorstep Milo started to ascend

Nudging it open with his small head
In the wind and water he began to tread
Carelessly covered in flimsy sheets
Across the slamming window, a cacophony of bleats

Milo slipped through the tarpaulin crease,
And came across hundreds fat and obese.
Illuminated they stood with yellowed dull lights,
Seemingly only enhancing their spaceless plights.

“Why are you there, stuck behind that bar?”
An old goat puzzled, “I know not another world? One outside this car?”
“They take some out, alas, we only hear their last screams from afar”
Milo pondered their lives, blinded and bizarre

The black cat shivered on the pouring street
Drenched with hurt, and little to eat
O’er the hunger, his eyes so glum,
Who was he? What must he become?


PART 3: TRAIN, SCENE 2, THE DEMOLITION 

On he went, sorry yet spry,
When a skittering object caught the corner of his eye,
He pounced and a net of silver gleamed
But aback he was taken when the critter screamed 

“Please, you have taken my home,” he wept
“At least spare my life,” said the spider black and yellow specked
“They have taken it in dozens destroyed and wrecked
and killed my brothers, smashed and swept”

“Then why do you not leave?
To a place where they can’t aggrieve?
A forest or a distant tree?
A place to live, a place to be free.”

“But they are omnipresent, it so does seem
And for them, our misery is a forgettable theme.
Sleepless apparent, without our hurt per diem 
Getting away is all but a futile daydream”

Milo tilted his head in empathy of his hurt
A life strained, treated akin dirt
“I am sorry for the harm to your abode”
The spider smiled, content at the empathy he was owed

Milo knew not what to say
As he watched the spider hirple away
He didn’t understand the cruelty, he couldn’t understand the “why”
“Perhaps some have a fortune much much worse than I”

The black cat shivered on the pouring street
Drenched with hurt, and little to eat
O’er the hunger, his eyes so glum,
Who was he? What must he become?


PART 4: TRANSFERENCE

Milo hopped off the bitter train
Back into the needling rain.
Look he did, for a brand new quest,
A better life at the passengers’ behest

A boy came up to him, candy in hand 
Quick steps apart from the stationmaster’s stand
A man and woman, with hands entwined
A quiet pair of eyes, a quiet calm enshrined

The boy pleaded, for have Milo he must
They gave in, leaving the cat nonplussed
On went Milo, clutched in the boy’s arm
A little trinket, a quaint little charm

A castle, they entered with pillars to the sky
And food to eat beyond what Milo could descry
A kind gardener petted Milo with eyes of woe
Didn’t see why, yet he purred at him slow

Dusk passed in the great star’s span
and in sauntered a strange suited man
The man yelled at the father rather loud
As the indignified father fretted and bowed

The man left and the father turned crossed,
Gentleness gone, mood intricate with frost
Yelling at the mother for reasons none
Smalls of the house, unkempt and undone

The mother sorted the house to be 
At the father’s unsettling decree
She turned red to the little child
Ruckus he made, far too beguiled

The child mumbled in the angst of their way
Rolling and pacing in much dismay
Off the boy turned, and the cat he chased
And ousted Milo was, unhomed with haste

The black cat shivered on the pouring street
Drenched with hurt, and little to eat
O’er the hunger, his eyes so glum,
Who was he? What must he become?


PART 5: PEACE

In he was taken, by the gardener to live,
A gentle old man with not much left to give.
Weeks passed and the seasons turned
Milo deemed his misery adjourned 

Thirst quenched and a stomach perennially full
Sleeping on warm sheets of wool
On he basked, by the pot of fern
As he waited happily for his friend to return 

Quiet steps shook his dream
Foreign noises in an foreign scheme
A group of men giggling in a strange choir
As one man bestowed upon him a rod of fire

Milo wailed as it melted his fur and seared inside
A gnawing pain, bolted onto him astride
He wailed and spasmed as the laughs did fade
He shuddered and called as his entire being frayed

Milo heard his name sung around 
A vague serenity across the trembling ground
On the road he burned and bled
A single view he prayed and pled

The black cat snuggled on the embracing street
Caressed hands weeping yet so sweet.
O’er the peace, his voice did hum,
In death he knew love, nothing more, did he have to become.

But he purred. 
Because at last, 
he was held
